FOODGRAPH_ENHANCED_SEARCH.md, before:

# FoodGraph Enhanced Search Implementation

## Overview
Improved FoodGraph search accuracy by combining all extracted product details (brand, product name, flavor, size) into a single comprehensive search string.

## Problem
Previously, FoodGraph searches were inconsistent:
- Single search endpoint combined fields properly
- Batch search only used brand name
- This resulted in less accurate matches for batch processing

## Solution

### Modified `searchProducts()` function (lib/foodgraph.ts)
- Combines brand, productName, flavor, and size into single search string
- Added detailed logging to show original vs. combined search terms
- Example: "Native" + "Deodorant" + "Jarritos Passion Fruit" + "2.65 oz" → "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz"

### Updated batch-search-foodgraph endpoint
- Now parses `brand_extraction_response` to get full product details
- Passes all fields to `searchProducts()` function
- Uses same enhanced search logic as single search
- Logs comprehensive search terms for debugging

## Implementation Details

### Request Body Format
The FoodGraph API request body structure:
```json
{
  "updatedAtFrom": "2025-07-01T00:00:00Z",
  "productFilter": "CORE_FIELDS",
  "search": "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz",
  "searchIn": {
    "or": ["title"]
  },
  "fuzzyMatch": true
}
```

### Search Logic
```typescript
// Build comprehensive search term
const parts = [
  options.brand,      // e.g., "Native"
  options.productName, // e.g., "Deodorant"
  options.flavor,      // e.g., "Jarritos Passion Fruit"
  options.size         // e.g., "2.65 oz (75g)"
].filter(Boolean);

enhancedSearchTerm = parts.join(' ').trim();
// Result: "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz (75g)"
```

## Benefits

1. **Better Match Accuracy**: More specific search terms lead to more relevant results
2. **Consistent Behavior**: Single and batch search now use same logic
3. **Better Debugging**: Detailed logging shows exactly what's being searched
4. **Improved Results**: Size and flavor information helps distinguish between product variants

## Example

**Before:**
- Batch search: "Native" (only brand)
- Single search: "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz"

**After:**
- Both: "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz"

## Files Modified

1. `lib/foodgraph.ts`
   - Enhanced `searchProducts()` function
   - Added comprehensive logging

2. `app/api/batch-search-foodgraph/route.ts`
   - Parse `brand_extraction_response` 
   - Pass all product details to search function
   - Enhanced logging for debugging

## Testing

To verify the changes:
1. Upload an image with products
2. Extract product info (brand, product name, flavor, size)
3. Run FoodGraph search (single or batch)
4. Check console logs to see combined search term
5. Verify results are more accurate and specific

## Commit
- **Hash**: c733838
- **Date**: November 6, 2025
- **Build Status**: ✅ Successful (no errors)

## Related Documentation
- FOODGRAPH_TIMING_OPTIMIZATION.md - Sequential processing with delays
- BATCH_PROCESSING_SYSTEM.md - Overall batch processing architecture

Commit message:

Update documentation with return type details and commit history

FOODGRAPH_ENHANCED_SEARCH.md, after:

# FoodGraph Enhanced Search Implementation

## Overview
Improved FoodGraph search accuracy by combining all extracted product details (brand, product name, flavor, size) into a single comprehensive search string.

## Problem
Previously, FoodGraph searches were inconsistent:
- Single search endpoint combined fields properly
- Batch search only used brand name
- This resulted in less accurate matches for batch processing

## Solution

### Modified `searchProducts()` function (lib/foodgraph.ts)
- Combines brand, productName, flavor, and size into single search string
- Added detailed logging to show original vs. combined search terms
- Example: "Native" + "Deodorant" + "Jarritos Passion Fruit" + "2.65 oz" → "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz"

### Updated batch-search-foodgraph endpoint
- Now parses `brand_extraction_response` to get full product details
- Passes all fields to `searchProducts()` function
- Uses same enhanced search logic as single search
- Logs comprehensive search terms for debugging

## Implementation Details

### Function Return Type
The `searchProducts()` function now returns an object containing both the results and the actual search term used:
```typescript
{
  products: FoodGraphProduct[];  // Array of matching products
  searchTerm: string;           // Exact search term sent to API
}
```

This ensures the displayed search term matches exactly what was sent to FoodGraph, providing complete transparency.

### Request Body Format
The FoodGraph API request body structure:
```json
{
  "updatedAtFrom": "2025-07-01T00:00:00Z",
  "productFilter": "CORE_FIELDS",
  "search": "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz",
  "searchIn": {
    "or": ["title"]
  },
  "fuzzyMatch": true
}
```

### Search Logic
```typescript
// Build comprehensive search term
const parts = [
  options.brand,      // e.g., "Native"
  options.productName, // e.g., "Deodorant"
  options.flavor,      // e.g., "Jarritos Passion Fruit"
  options.size         // e.g., "2.65 oz (75g)"
].filter(Boolean);

enhancedSearchTerm = parts.join(' ').trim();
// Result: "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz (75g)"
```

## Benefits

1. **Better Match Accuracy**: More specific search terms lead to more relevant results
2. **Consistent Behavior**: Single and batch search now use same logic
3. **Better Debugging**: Detailed logging shows exactly what's being searched
4. **Improved Results**: Size and flavor information helps distinguish between product variants

## Example

**Before:**
- Batch search: "Native" (only brand)
- Single search: "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz"

**After:**
- Both: "Native Deodorant Jarritos Passion Fruit 2.65 oz"

## Files Modified

1. `lib/foodgraph.ts`
   - Enhanced `searchProducts()` function
   - Added comprehensive logging

2. `app/api/batch-search-foodgraph/route.ts`
   - Parse `brand_extraction_response` 
   - Pass all product details to search function
   - Enhanced logging for debugging

## Testing

To verify the changes:
1. Upload an image with products
2. Extract product info (brand, product name, flavor, size)
3. Run FoodGraph search (single or batch)
4. Check console logs to see combined search term
5. Verify results are more accurate and specific

## Commits
1. **c733838** - Initial implementation combining all product fields
2. **cf065ae** - Added documentation
3. **97ec8c5** - Added search term display to UI
4. **e5009e9** - Return actual search term from searchProducts function
- **Date**: November 6, 2025
- **Build Status**: ✅ Successful (no errors)

## Related Documentation
- FOODGRAPH_TIMING_OPTIMIZATION.md - Sequential processing with delays
- BATCH_PROCESSING_SYSTEM.md - Overall batch processing architecture
