YOLO_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# YOLO Integration for BrangHunt

## Overview

Integrated external YOLO Product Detector API (http://157.180.25.214) as an alternative detection method to Gemini API. Users can now choose between two detection approaches:

1. **YOLO + Gemini (Hybrid)** - Fast YOLO detection + Gemini extraction ⚡
2. **Gemini Only** - Gemini handles both detection and extraction 🤖

## Architecture

### Hybrid Approach (YOLO + Gemini)

```
┌─────────────────┐
│  Upload Image   │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐
│  YOLO Detection API     │  ← External service (157.180.25.214)
│  Returns: Bounding Boxes│     Trained on retail products
└────────┬────────────────┘     Response time: ~1-2 seconds
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐
│ Save Detections to DB   │
└────────┬────────────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐
│  User Selects Product   │
└────────┬────────────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐
│ Gemini Brand Extraction │  ← Extract brand, name, price, etc.
│ (Per Product)           │     Only for selected products
└─────────────────────────┘
```

### Benefits

**YOLO + Gemini Hybrid:**
- ✅ **Faster Initial Detection** - YOLO processes entire image in 1-2 seconds
- ✅ **Cost Efficient** - Only pay for Gemini on selected products
- ✅ **Selective Analysis** - Analyze only products you care about
- ✅ **Custom Training** - YOLO model trained on your specific products
- ✅ **Offline Capable** - YOLO runs on your server (no external API dependency)

**Gemini Only:**
- ✅ **Simpler Workflow** - One API call for detection + extraction
- ✅ **Better Text Recognition** - Gemini excels at reading brand names
- ✅ **No Infrastructure** - Fully serverless
- ✅ **Detailed Extraction** - Gets brand, product name, flavor, size, SKU in one pass

## Implementation Details

### 1. New API Route: `/api/detect-yolo/route.ts`

**Purpose:** Calls external YOLO API and converts results to BrangHunt format

**Flow:**
1. Fetch image from Supabase by `imageId`
2. Convert base64 → Buffer → Blob
3. Call YOLO API at `http://157.180.25.214/api/detect`
4. Convert YOLO coordinates (pixel x1,y1,x2,y2) → BrangHunt normalized (0-1000 y0,x0,y1,x1)
5. Save detections to `branghunt_detections` table
6. Return results with timing metrics

**YOLO Response Format:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "image_dimensions": {
    "width": 1080,
    "height": 1920
  },
  "detections": [
    {
      "bbox": {
        "x1": 671.39,
        "y1": 1694.43,
        "x2": 1079.71,
        "y2": 1918.02
      },
      "confidence": 0.766,
      "class_id": 0,
      "class_name": "product"
    }
  ],
  "total_detections": 2
}
```

**Coordinate Conversion:**
```typescript
// YOLO format: pixel coordinates (x1, y1, x2, y2)
// BrangHunt format: normalized 0-1000 (y0, x0, y1, x1)

const normalizedBox = {
  y0: Math.round((det.bbox.y1 / image.height) * 1000),
  x0: Math.round((det.bbox.x1 / image.width) * 1000),
  y1: Math.round((det.bbox.y2 / image.height) * 1000),
  x1: Math.round((det.bbox.x2 / image.width) * 1000),
};
```

### 2. Updated UI: Detection Method Toggle

**Location:** `app/analyze/[imageId]/page.tsx`

**New State:**
```typescript
const [detectionMethod, setDetectionMethod] = useState<'gemini' | 'yolo'>('yolo');
```

**UI Component:**
```tsx
{/* Detection Method Toggle */}
<div className="flex items-center gap-2 bg-gray-100 rounded-lg p-1">
  <button
    onClick={() => setDetectionMethod('yolo')}
    className={detectionMethod === 'yolo' ? 'active' : ''}
  >
    ⚡ YOLO
  </button>
  <button
    onClick={() => setDetectionMethod('gemini')}
    className={detectionMethod === 'gemini' ? 'active' : ''}
  >
    🤖 Gemini
  </button>
</div>
```

**Default:** YOLO (faster and cheaper for initial detection)

### 3. Modified Detection Handler

**Updated Logic:**
```typescript
const handleDetectProducts = async () => {
  // Choose API endpoint based on detection method
  const endpoint = detectionMethod === 'yolo' ? '/api/detect-yolo' : '/api/detect';
  
  const response = await fetch(endpoint, {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' },
    body: JSON.stringify({ imageId: resolvedParams.imageId }),
  });
  
  // Log performance metrics
  if (data.processing_time_ms) {
    console.log(`Detection completed in ${data.processing_time_ms}ms using ${data.detection_method}`);
  }
};
```

## Usage

### For Users

1. **Upload Image** → Upload product shelf image
2. **Choose Detection Method:**
   - **⚡ YOLO** - Fast detection, then extract details per product
   - **🤖 Gemini** - Slower but extracts everything in one pass
3. **Click "Detect Products"**
4. **Analyze Products** → Click bounding boxes to extract brand details

### Recommendations

**Use YOLO when:**
- Processing images with many products (>10)
- Want to preview all products before analyzing
- Cost-conscious (only pay for Gemini on selected products)
- Have custom-trained YOLO model for your products

**Use Gemini when:**
- Processing images with few products (<10)
- Need detailed extraction immediately
- Don't want to manage infrastructure
- Products have complex text/branding

## Performance Comparison

| Metric | YOLO + Gemini | Gemini Only |
|--------|---------------|-------------|
| **Initial Detection** | 1-2 seconds | 20-60 seconds |
| **Per Product Analysis** | 5-10 seconds | Included |
| **Cost (50 products)** | YOLO: Free + Gemini: $0.50 | Gemini: $2.50 |
| **Infrastructure** | YOLO Server Required | Fully Serverless |
| **Accuracy** | YOLO: 76%+ confidence | Gemini: 90%+ |

## YOLO API Details

**Base URL:** http://157.180.25.214

**Endpoint:** `/api/detect`

**Method:** POST

**Request:** 
- Content-Type: `multipart/form-data`
- Body: `file` (image file)

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": boolean,
  "image_dimensions": {
    "width": number,
    "height": number
  },
  "detections": [
    {
      "bbox": {
        "x1": number,
        "y1": number,
        "x2": number,
        "y2": number
      },
      "confidence": number,
      "class_id": number,
      "class_name": string
    }
  ],
  "total_detections": number
}
```

**Model:** YOLOv8/v11 trained on retail shelf products

**GitHub:** https://github.com/paulalexeevich/Retail-service

## Testing Results

**Test Image:** `Demo images/Phantom stock/Product_status.jpg`
- **Dimensions:** 1080×1920px
- **Detections:** 2 products found
- **Response Time:** ~1 second
- **Confidence Scores:** 76.6%, 26.2%

**Test Command:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://157.180.25.214/api/detect \
  -F "file=@Product_status.jpg" \
  -H "accept: application/json"
```

**Result:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "image_dimensions": {"width": 1080, "height": 1920},
  "detections": [
    {
      "bbox": {"x1": 671.39, "y1": 1694.43, "x2": 1079.71, "y2": 1918.02},
      "confidence": 0.766,
      "class_id": 0,
      "class_name": "product"
    },
    {
      "bbox": {"x1": 151.15, "y1": 1795.6, "x2": 634.74, "y2": 1920.0},
      "confidence": 0.262,
      "class_id": 0,
      "class_name": "product"
    }
  ],
  "total_detections": 2
}
```

## Future Enhancements

1. **Automatic Method Selection** - Choose YOLO vs Gemini based on image characteristics
2. **YOLO Model Training** - Fine-tune on BrangHunt-specific products
3. **Batch Detection** - Process multiple images in parallel
4. **Local YOLO Instance** - Deploy YOLO on Vercel/AWS instead of external server
5. **Confidence Threshold** - Allow users to filter low-confidence detections
6. **A/B Testing** - Compare YOLO vs Gemini accuracy on same images

## Troubleshooting

### YOLO API Not Responding

**Symptoms:**
- Timeout errors after 60 seconds
- "Failed to connect" messages

**Solutions:**
1. Check YOLO server status: `curl http://157.180.25.214/`
2. Verify firewall allows outbound requests from Vercel
3. Fall back to Gemini detection automatically

**Code:**
```typescript
try {
  const yoloResponse = await fetch(YOLO_API_URL, { timeout: 30000 });
} catch (error) {
  console.error('YOLO API failed, falling back to Gemini');
  // Automatically switch to Gemini
}
```

### Coordinate Mismatch

**Symptoms:**
- Bounding boxes don't align with products
- Boxes appear in wrong locations

**Solutions:**
1. Verify coordinate conversion logic
2. Check image dimensions match YOLO response
3. Test with known working image

**Debug:**
```typescript
console.log('YOLO bbox (pixels):', det.bbox);
console.log('Image dimensions:', image.width, image.height);
console.log('Normalized bbox (0-1000):', normalizedBox);
```

### Low Detection Count

**Symptoms:**
- YOLO detects fewer products than expected
- Missing obvious products

**Solutions:**
1. Lower confidence threshold in YOLO API
2. Improve image quality (lighting, focus)
3. Retrain YOLO model with more examples
4. Use Gemini for complex images

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

No additional environment variables needed - YOLO API URL is hardcoded.

**Optional:** Make it configurable
```typescript
const YOLO_API_URL = process.env.YOLO_API_URL || 'http://157.180.25.214/api/detect';
```

### Vercel Configuration

Ensure Fluid Compute is enabled for 60-second timeouts:

**vercel.json:**
```json
{
  "functions": {
    "app/api/detect-yolo/route.ts": {
      "maxDuration": 60
    }
  }
}
```

## Database Schema

No schema changes needed - YOLO detections use same `branghunt_detections` table as Gemini.

**Relevant Fields:**
- `bounding_box` (JSONB) - Stores normalized coordinates {y0, x0, y1, x1}
- `confidence_score` (DECIMAL) - From YOLO confidence
- `label` (TEXT) - Class name from YOLO (typically "product")

## API Endpoints Summary

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose | Detection Method |
|----------|--------|---------|------------------|
| `/api/detect` | POST | Detect products using Gemini | Gemini |
| `/api/detect-yolo` | POST | Detect products using YOLO | YOLO |
| `/api/extract-brand` | POST | Extract brand details | Gemini |
| `/api/extract-price` | POST | Extract price information | Gemini |

## Commit Information

**Branch:** yolo-integration

**Files Modified:**
- `app/api/detect-yolo/route.ts` (new)
- `app/analyze/[imageId]/page.tsx` (modified)
- `YOLO_INTEGRATION.md` (new)

**Key Changes:**
1. Created YOLO detection endpoint
2. Added detection method toggle in UI
3. Modified detection handler to support both methods
4. Documented integration architecture and usage

---

**Last Updated:** November 2, 2025
**Author:** BrangHunt Development Team
**Status:** ✅ Ready for Testing

Commit message:

docs: update YOLO integration documentation with confidence filtering

YOLO_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# YOLO Integration for BrangHunt

## Overview

Integrated external YOLO Product Detector API (http://157.180.25.214) as an alternative detection method to Gemini API with **50% confidence filtering** for high-quality results. Users can now choose between two detection approaches:

1. **YOLO + Gemini (Hybrid)** - Fast YOLO detection + Gemini extraction ⚡
2. **Gemini Only** - Gemini handles both detection and extraction 🤖

**Quality Control:** Only detections with ≥50% confidence are saved to prevent false positives.

## Architecture

### Hybrid Approach (YOLO + Gemini)

```
┌─────────────────┐
│  Upload Image   │
└────────┬────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐
│  YOLO Detection API     │  ← External service (157.180.25.214)
│  Returns: Bounding Boxes│     Trained on retail products
└────────┬────────────────┘     Response time: ~1-2 seconds
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐
│ Save Detections to DB   │
└────────┬────────────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐
│  User Selects Product   │
└────────┬────────────────┘
         │
         ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐
│ Gemini Brand Extraction │  ← Extract brand, name, price, etc.
│ (Per Product)           │     Only for selected products
└─────────────────────────┘
```

### Benefits

**YOLO + Gemini Hybrid:**
- ✅ **Faster Initial Detection** - YOLO processes entire image in 1-2 seconds
- ✅ **Cost Efficient** - Only pay for Gemini on selected products
- ✅ **Selective Analysis** - Analyze only products you care about
- ✅ **Custom Training** - YOLO model trained on your specific products
- ✅ **Offline Capable** - YOLO runs on your server (no external API dependency)

**Gemini Only:**
- ✅ **Simpler Workflow** - One API call for detection + extraction
- ✅ **Better Text Recognition** - Gemini excels at reading brand names
- ✅ **No Infrastructure** - Fully serverless
- ✅ **Detailed Extraction** - Gets brand, product name, flavor, size, SKU in one pass

## Implementation Details

### 1. New API Route: `/api/detect-yolo/route.ts`

**Purpose:** Calls external YOLO API and converts results to BrangHunt format

**Flow:**
1. Fetch image from Supabase by `imageId`
2. Convert base64 → Buffer → Blob
3. Call YOLO API at `http://157.180.25.214/api/detect`
4. **Filter detections:** Keep only confidence ≥ 50% (configurable via `CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD`)
5. Convert YOLO coordinates (pixel x1,y1,x2,y2) → BrangHunt normalized (0-1000 y0,x0,y1,x1)
6. Save high-confidence detections to `branghunt_detections` table
7. Return results with timing metrics

**YOLO Response Format:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "image_dimensions": {
    "width": 1080,
    "height": 1920
  },
  "detections": [
    {
      "bbox": {
        "x1": 671.39,
        "y1": 1694.43,
        "x2": 1079.71,
        "y2": 1918.02
      },
      "confidence": 0.766,
      "class_id": 0,
      "class_name": "product"
    }
  ],
  "total_detections": 2
}
```

**Coordinate Conversion:**
```typescript
// YOLO format: pixel coordinates (x1, y1, x2, y2)
// BrangHunt format: normalized 0-1000 (y0, x0, y1, x1)

const normalizedBox = {
  y0: Math.round((det.bbox.y1 / image.height) * 1000),
  x0: Math.round((det.bbox.x1 / image.width) * 1000),
  y1: Math.round((det.bbox.y2 / image.height) * 1000),
  x1: Math.round((det.bbox.x2 / image.width) * 1000),
};
```

### 2. Updated UI: Detection Method Toggle

**Location:** `app/analyze/[imageId]/page.tsx`

**New State:**
```typescript
const [detectionMethod, setDetectionMethod] = useState<'gemini' | 'yolo'>('yolo');
```

**UI Component:**
```tsx
{/* Detection Method Toggle */}
<div className="flex items-center gap-2 bg-gray-100 rounded-lg p-1">
  <button
    onClick={() => setDetectionMethod('yolo')}
    className={detectionMethod === 'yolo' ? 'active' : ''}
  >
    ⚡ YOLO
  </button>
  <button
    onClick={() => setDetectionMethod('gemini')}
    className={detectionMethod === 'gemini' ? 'active' : ''}
  >
    🤖 Gemini
  </button>
</div>
```

**Default:** YOLO (faster and cheaper for initial detection)

### 3. Modified Detection Handler

**Updated Logic:**
```typescript
const handleDetectProducts = async () => {
  // Choose API endpoint based on detection method
  const endpoint = detectionMethod === 'yolo' ? '/api/detect-yolo' : '/api/detect';
  
  const response = await fetch(endpoint, {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' },
    body: JSON.stringify({ imageId: resolvedParams.imageId }),
  });
  
  // Log performance metrics
  if (data.processing_time_ms) {
    console.log(`Detection completed in ${data.processing_time_ms}ms using ${data.detection_method}`);
  }
};
```

## Usage

### For Users

1. **Upload Image** → Upload product shelf image
2. **Choose Detection Method:**
   - **⚡ YOLO** - Fast detection, then extract details per product
   - **🤖 Gemini** - Slower but extracts everything in one pass
3. **Click "Detect Products"**
4. **Analyze Products** → Click bounding boxes to extract brand details

### Recommendations

**Use YOLO when:**
- Processing images with many products (>10)
- Want to preview all products before analyzing
- Cost-conscious (only pay for Gemini on selected products)
- Have custom-trained YOLO model for your products

**Use Gemini when:**
- Processing images with few products (<10)
- Need detailed extraction immediately
- Don't want to manage infrastructure
- Products have complex text/branding

## Performance Comparison

| Metric | YOLO + Gemini | Gemini Only |
|--------|---------------|-------------|
| **Initial Detection** | 1-2 seconds | 20-60 seconds |
| **Per Product Analysis** | 5-10 seconds | Included |
| **Cost (50 products)** | YOLO: Free + Gemini: $0.50 | Gemini: $2.50 |
| **Infrastructure** | YOLO Server Required | Fully Serverless |
| **Accuracy** | YOLO: 76%+ confidence | Gemini: 90%+ |

## YOLO API Details

**Base URL:** http://157.180.25.214

**Endpoint:** `/api/detect`

**Method:** POST

**Request:** 
- Content-Type: `multipart/form-data`
- Body: `file` (image file)

**Response:**
```json
{
  "success": boolean,
  "image_dimensions": {
    "width": number,
    "height": number
  },
  "detections": [
    {
      "bbox": {
        "x1": number,
        "y1": number,
        "x2": number,
        "y2": number
      },
      "confidence": number,
      "class_id": number,
      "class_name": string
    }
  ],
  "total_detections": number
}
```

**Model:** YOLOv8/v11 trained on retail shelf products

**GitHub:** https://github.com/paulalexeevich/Retail-service

## Testing Results

**Test Image:** `Demo images/Phantom stock/Product_status.jpg`
- **Dimensions:** 1080×1920px
- **Detections:** 2 products found
- **Response Time:** ~1 second
- **Confidence Scores:** 76.6%, 26.2%

**Test Command:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://157.180.25.214/api/detect \
  -F "file=@Product_status.jpg" \
  -H "accept: application/json"
```

**Result:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "image_dimensions": {"width": 1080, "height": 1920},
  "detections": [
    {
      "bbox": {"x1": 671.39, "y1": 1694.43, "x2": 1079.71, "y2": 1918.02},
      "confidence": 0.766,
      "class_id": 0,
      "class_name": "product"
    },
    {
      "bbox": {"x1": 151.15, "y1": 1795.6, "x2": 634.74, "y2": 1920.0},
      "confidence": 0.262,
      "class_id": 0,
      "class_name": "product"
    }
  ],
  "total_detections": 2
}
```

## Future Enhancements

1. **Automatic Method Selection** - Choose YOLO vs Gemini based on image characteristics
2. **YOLO Model Training** - Fine-tune on BrangHunt-specific products
3. **Batch Detection** - Process multiple images in parallel
4. **Local YOLO Instance** - Deploy YOLO on Vercel/AWS instead of external server
5. **Confidence Threshold** - Allow users to filter low-confidence detections
6. **A/B Testing** - Compare YOLO vs Gemini accuracy on same images

## Troubleshooting

### YOLO API Not Responding

**Symptoms:**
- Timeout errors after 60 seconds
- "Failed to connect" messages

**Solutions:**
1. Check YOLO server status: `curl http://157.180.25.214/`
2. Verify firewall allows outbound requests from Vercel
3. Fall back to Gemini detection automatically

**Code:**
```typescript
try {
  const yoloResponse = await fetch(YOLO_API_URL, { timeout: 30000 });
} catch (error) {
  console.error('YOLO API failed, falling back to Gemini');
  // Automatically switch to Gemini
}
```

### Coordinate Mismatch

**Symptoms:**
- Bounding boxes don't align with products
- Boxes appear in wrong locations

**Solutions:**
1. Verify coordinate conversion logic
2. Check image dimensions match YOLO response
3. Test with known working image

**Debug:**
```typescript
console.log('YOLO bbox (pixels):', det.bbox);
console.log('Image dimensions:', image.width, image.height);
console.log('Normalized bbox (0-1000):', normalizedBox);
```

### Low Detection Count

**Symptoms:**
- YOLO detects fewer products than expected
- Missing obvious products

**Solutions:**
1. Lower confidence threshold in YOLO API
2. Improve image quality (lighting, focus)
3. Retrain YOLO model with more examples
4. Use Gemini for complex images

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

No additional environment variables needed - YOLO API URL is hardcoded.

**Optional:** Make it configurable
```typescript
const YOLO_API_URL = process.env.YOLO_API_URL || 'http://157.180.25.214/api/detect';
```

### Vercel Configuration

Ensure Fluid Compute is enabled for 60-second timeouts:

**vercel.json:**
```json
{
  "functions": {
    "app/api/detect-yolo/route.ts": {
      "maxDuration": 60
    }
  }
}
```

## Database Schema

No schema changes needed - YOLO detections use same `branghunt_detections` table as Gemini.

**Relevant Fields:**
- `bounding_box` (JSONB) - Stores normalized coordinates {y0, x0, y1, x1}
- `confidence_score` (DECIMAL) - From YOLO confidence
- `label` (TEXT) - Class name from YOLO (typically "product")

## API Endpoints Summary

| Endpoint | Method | Purpose | Detection Method |
|----------|--------|---------|------------------|
| `/api/detect` | POST | Detect products using Gemini | Gemini |
| `/api/detect-yolo` | POST | Detect products using YOLO | YOLO |
| `/api/extract-brand` | POST | Extract brand details | Gemini |
| `/api/extract-price` | POST | Extract price information | Gemini |

## Commit Information

**Branch:** yolo-integration

**Files Modified:**
- `app/api/detect-yolo/route.ts` (new)
- `app/analyze/[imageId]/page.tsx` (modified)
- `YOLO_INTEGRATION.md` (new)

**Key Changes:**
1. Created YOLO detection endpoint
2. Added detection method toggle in UI
3. Modified detection handler to support both methods
4. Documented integration architecture and usage

---

**Last Updated:** November 2, 2025
**Author:** BrangHunt Development Team
**Status:** ✅ Ready for Testing
